OPENGL: all buffers have an id unsigned int
GL_STREAM_DRAW: the data is set only once and used just few times
GL_STATIC_DRAW: the data is set only once but used a lot of times
GL_DYNAMIC_DRAW: the data changes a lot and used a lot

graphics rendering consist in shaders, speciffically, a vertex data[], that
1. vertex shader, calculate the 3d positions given, and it transform it in the 2d positions of the screen
2. shape/geometry shader, makes another primitives of the mesh, if its, square = two triangles
3. shape assembly , makes a strip bewtween the resulting shapes, "making a strip" (line)
4. fragmentation/rasterization, converts the mesh in its pixel form, it draws the mesh in pixels (discarding data that the user dont see)
5. color/fragment shader, it gives color to the pixels, as light, shades, solid, etc
6. alpha and blending, opacity and the depth of the pixel, so it performs calculations if another object is in front

VBO: VERTEX BUFFER OBJECT: an array of vertex data (vertices and positions)


there are two main shaders that the programmer have to configurate in opengl
1. Vertex shader, to defain the positions.
2. Fragment shader, to defain the colors

the main structure is:
the GSL (opengl shader language)
const char* shaderSource = version/type/main function

unsigned int shader = glCreateShader;
glshareshader(shader, sizeOfArguments, shdaerSource, null)
glCompilshader(shader)

later, we create the program shader, wich attache and link all the shaders previously to use them
after gluseprogram, all drawing instructions will be for the program specified

but, theres a catch, even do we pass the positions, opengl doesnt know how to treat them, that includes
the type of data, the layout wich is positioned the data, the number of arguments, etc

glVertexAttribPointer takes 5 parameters
1. wich vertex attribute we want to configure, in the GSL code of our vertex shader, we specified its location
in 0, so, its saved at position 0, so we want to access that
2. the size of the vertex, the number of arguments passed, this case, 3 points (triangle)
3. the type of data, if its an integer, float, etc ( just numeric values btw)
4.this is to normalize the data (if they are integers) i dont understand yet what it does
5.its the stride (pasos en español), so basically, all vertex data is next to each other in 32 bits (4bytes),
so, its an array of bites that would be like (for a triangle): 0....4....8....12........... and it countinues until
all values are covered, so, we have to determine how long is that size, just make a (number of points) * size of the 
type of value
6.wtf is a void*
